1. "The science without the art is likely to be ineffective; the art 
   without the science is certain to be inaccurate." (Page 4)

   Having scientific knowledge without the capability and willingness 
   to apply it, aka art, will likely not give you a good result. At 
   the same time, art without that base knowledge or science is going 
   to be functionally useless. The point is that art and science are 
   interdependent.


2. "Our pleasure is significantly enhanced when we accomplish something 
   with limited tools." (Page 7)

   Working with lower level languages, active resource management, or 
   making something ourselves is generally much more satisfying than 
   using a library or built-in function that does all the work for us.


3. The use of our large-scale machines with their fancy operating 
   systems and languages doesn’t really seem to engender any love 
   for programming, at least not at first. (Page 8)
   
   Interacting with a computer on a very high level, such as through
   modern operating systems, is not very engaging or interesting from 
   a programming or computer science standpoint.


To my understanding, idea 3 is essentially about how user friendliness distances 
users from computer science. In order to interact with old operating systems such 
as MSDOS, users need to learn a lot more compared to Windows. Modern operating 
systems expose their users to far fewer computer science concepts, which makes it 
unlikely for them to develop a deeper interest. Basically, too much abstraction 
damages the relationship between the user and the actual system. This also applies 
to other things, such as hardware and programming languages.
I found this idea to be impressive, given that it is still very relevant more than 
50 years after the publication of this paper. Most users of modern technology have 
no idea about what is going on under the hood, yet they interact with it every day.
Technology is only going to get more simplified, and with that, the general public 
will be exposed to fewer computer science concepts.
